docs: Consul DNS views on Kubernetes (#21802)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/services/discovery/dns-cache.mdx

---
layout: docs

> page_title: cale Consul DNS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
page_title: Scale Consul DNS
```

description: ->
    You tune Consul DNS query handling to balance between current information and reducing request response time. Learn how to enable caching by modifying TTL values, how to return stale results from the DNS cache, and how to configure Consul for negative response caching.
---

# Scale Consul DNS

This page describes the process to return cached results in response to DNS lookups. Consul agents can use DNS caching to reduce response time, but might provide stale information in the process.

## Scaling techniques

By default, Consul serves all DNS results with a `0` TTL value so that it returns the most recent information. When operating at scale, this configuration may result in additional latency because servers must respond to every DNS query. There are several strategies for distributing this burden in your datacenter:

- [Allow Stale Reads](#stale-reads). Allows other servers besides the leader to answer the query rather than forwarding it to the leader.

> - [Configure DNS TTLs](#ttl-values). Configure a TTL to nodes or services that the DNS subsystem on the service container’s OS uses. Services then resolve DNS queries locally without any external requests.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Configure DNS TTLs](#ttl-values). Configure DNS time-to-live (TTL) values for nodes or services so that the DNS subsystem on the container’s operating system can cache responses. Services then resolve DNS queries locally without any external requests.  
```

By default, Consul serves all DNS results with a `0` TTL value so that it returns the most recent information. When operating at scale, this configuration may result in additional latency because servers must respond to every DNS query. There are several strategies for distributing this burden in your datacenter:

- [Allow Stale Reads](#stale-reads). Allows other servers besides the leader to answer the query rather than forwarding it to the leader.

> - [Configure DNS TTLs](#ttl-values). Configure DNS time-to-live (TTL) values for nodes or services so that the DNS subsystem on the container’s operating system can cache responses. Services then resolve DNS queries locally without any external requests.  

Reviewer 2: 👏
